.\" Manual page for seaclaw gateway subcommand
.\"
.TH SEACLAW-GATEWAY 1 "March 2026" "seaclaw 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
seaclaw gateway \- start webhook gateway server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B seaclaw gateway
[\fIoptions\fR]
.PP
.B seaclaw gateway
\fB--with-agent\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B seaclaw gateway
starts the HTTP webhook gateway server. It listens for incoming webhooks,
serves the control UI (if configured), and provides WebSocket connections
for real-time messaging.
.PP
In gateway-only mode, the server handles webhooks and tools but does not
run the full agent loop. Use
.B \-\-with-agent
to enable the agent for chat and autonomous turns.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-with-agent
Run the gateway with the full agent integrated. Enables chat and
autonomous tool execution in response to WebSocket messages.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Gateway settings are read from
.IR ~/.seaclaw/config.json
under the
.B gateway
key, and from environment variables.
.PP
Configurable via config.json:
.RS
.TP
.I host
Bind address (default: 127.0.0.1).
.TP
.I port
Listen port (default: 3000).
.TP
.I require_pairing
Require device pairing for webhooks.
.TP
.I allow_public_bind
Allow binding to 0.0.0.0 (use with caution).
.TP
.I pair_rate_limit_per_minute
Rate limit for pairing requests.
.TP
.I webhook_hmac_secret
HMAC secret for webhook signature verification.
.TP
.I control_ui_dir
Directory containing static files for the control UI (SPA).
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SEACLAW_GATEWAY_HOST
Override config bind address.
.TP
.B SEACLAW_GATEWAY_PORT
Override config port.
.TP
.B SEACLAW_WEBHOOK_HMAC_SECRET
HMAC secret for webhook verification.
.TP
.B SEACLAW_ALLOW_PUBLIC_BIND
Set to
.B 1
or
.B true
to allow binding to 0.0.0.0.
.SH DEFAULTS
.TP
.B Host
127.0.0.1 (config) or 0.0.0.0 when serving
.TP
.B Port
3000
.TP
.B Max body size
64 KiB
.TP
.B Rate limit
60 requests per minute per IP (configurable)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR seaclaw (1)
.PP
Homepage: https://seaclaw.ai
